<!-- Three Part Structure -->
<section
  id="three-part-structure"
  aria-labelledby="three-part-structure"
  data-item="Three Part Structure"
>
  <h2><a href="#three-part-structure">Three Part Structure</a></h2>


Part 1 explains how to can use the files in Project folder of this repository as the foundation on which to start building your own site.

Part 2 will show you how to build your own project, step by step, from an empty folder. It will give you a full understanding of how the files in the Project folder work

Part 3 explains how to deploy your Express-with-React backend to a hosting service.

## Just need a project template?

But perhaps all you want is a ready-made project template with a workflow to make your life simpler. So perhaps Part 1 is the only part you need.

<details class="tip" open>
<summary>Separate Git repositories</summary>
To make it easy for you to download this project, there is a hidden `.git` file at the root of the `Vite-React-Express` directory. If you want to use the files in the Project directory as the foundation of your own project, you will want to have a separate Git repository in both the `backend` and the `frontend` directory. And you won't want to have a `.git` directory in their parent folder.

To make it easy to delete the existing `.git` directory and create new ones in the `backend` and the `frontend` directories,  you can :

1. Open a Terminal window in the Project folder and run:

```bash-w
npm run split-git
```

The custom `split-git` script will remove the Git repository from the parent director and set up fresh new repositories in both the `backend/` and `frontend/` directories.

You want to have two separate Git repositories, because in the end, you will be deploying only one (the backend) to an online hosting site.

## Create matching repositories on GitHub

Your new repositories will no longer be connected to GitHub, so you should:

2. Create a separate GitHub repository for each of them
3. Use:

   ```git-w
   git remote add origin git@github.com:<account>/<repo-name>.git
   git push -u origin main
   ```
   ... (using your actual account and repository name) to push your new local repositories to GitHub.

</details>

</section>