<!-- npm scripts -->
<section
  id="npm-scripts"
  aria-labelledby="npm-scripts"
  data-item="npm Scripts"
>
  <h2><a href="#npm-scripts">Making`npm` work for you</a></h2>

The `npm` program can do much more than just installing Node packages for you. It can also run scripts. Remember the `package.json` file that was created in section [10. Installing Express](#installing-express)?

Add a new `"scripts"` block to the file, as shown below:
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.21.1"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node server.js"
  }
}
```

What do you think will happen if you do the following?

1. Open a new Terminal window in the `backend/` directory
2. Run the command `npm start`

Actually, you'll probably see your new Terminal fill up with a long error message, starting like this:

```bash-#
$ <b>npm start</b>

> start
> node server.js

node:events:485
      throw er; // Unhandled 'error' event
      ^

Error: listen EADDRINUSE: address already in use :::3000
```

Don't worry. Error messages are your friends. They explain, often with too much information, what went wrong.

This one reminds you that you just started your server running on port 3000, with the command `node server.js`, and you can't have two servers listening on the same port.

<details class="warn" open>
<summary>A different error?</summary>
Perhaps you see a different error. Perhaps, hidden in the error that you see is the line `Could not read package.json`. That would suggest that you **did not `Open a new Terminal window in the `backend/` directory`**, like I suggested, or that there is an error in the `package.json` file. Try running `cd backend` and  _then_ `npm start`.

</details>

To fix the problem with `EADDRINUSE`:

1. Return to the Terminal where you initially ran `node server.js`
2. Press `Ctl-C` (even on a Mac)

This should stop your server.

<details class="note" open>
<summary>Ctl-C is older than Windows</summary>
In the Terminal, `Ctl-C` means _Cancel_. It does _not_ mean _Copy_. This is because the Terminal shortcut was established long before `Ctrl-C` was given a different meaning by Microsoft Windows at the end of the last century. If you want to _copy_ something from the Terminal, you must use `Shift-Ctl-C`.

</details>

Now that your server has stopped, port 3000 is free again, and you can run `npm start`. And your server starts up again, and tells you:
```bash-#
$ npm start

> start
> node server.js

Server listening at http://localhost:3000
```

More work, just to arrive at the same place : )

</section>