<!-- making npm make npm work -->
<section
  id="making-npm-make-npm-work"
  aria-labelledby="making-npm-make-npm-work"
  data-item="npm Can Control npm"
>
  <h2><a href="#making-npm-make-npm-work">Making `npm` make `npm` work</a></h2>

For now, only the `backend/` directory contains any useful code, but later the `frontend/` directory will also contain code. You can take a step back, and direct both parts of your project from the parent folder. I'm going to show you how.

1. **Press `Ctl-C` to stop the server again**, and used
2. Use `cd ..` to navigate into the parent folder (`MyProject` or whatever folder contains both your `backend/` and your `frontend/` folders).

3. Run `ls -1F`.

(That's the digit "one" between `-` and `F`). This should show the contents of the parent folder:
```bash-#
$ ls -1F
backend/
frontend/
```

<details class="note" open>
<summary>ls</summary>
`ls` means `list` (because programmers don't like typing). The `-1` flag means "show one item on each line", and the `-F` flag (which stands for <i>classi<b>f</b>y</i>) means "show the`/` character if an item is a directory". You can run all the flags together, following the initial `-` flag indicator character, which gives you `-1F`. You can find the complete manual for the `ls` program [here](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/ls.1.html).

</details>

2. Run `npm init -y`

This will create a `package.json` file in the parent folder.

If you run `ls -1F` again, you should now see:
```bash-#
ls -1F     
backend/
frontend/
package.json
```

3. Take a look at what this new `package.json` file contains. Your entry for `"name"` will depend on the name of the parent folder you are working in.
```json
{
  "name": "myproject",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "keywords": [],
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC",
  "description": ""
}
```

<details class="note" open>
<summary>The secrets of `package.json`</summary>
I've got you to create this file so that you can edit the `"scripts"` block, but you might like to review what the other sections are for. In short, they make it easy for other open-source developers to find your project, when you make it public. They might want to collaborate with you, or fork your project and take it a different direction.

* The value of the`"name"` property will be the name of the parent folder in lower case. 
* You can leave `"version"` as it is.
* You can change the value for `"main"` to `"backend/server.js"`, to tell other developers which file to execute to start your app.
* I'll deal with the `"scripts"` field in detail in a moment
* You can add words in double-quotes to the array for `"keywords"` to help others to find your open-source project. You know best what you want your project to become, so it's your choice. I am creating my project to help people like you work efficiently with Express and React, so I might use `["express", "react", "backend", "server", "vite"]` for my keywords.
* The value you set for `"author"` will help people to find all the projects that you have worked on.
* By default, `npm` assumes that you will want to allow other developers to copy and remix your work. The [ISC licerse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISC_license) makes this explicit. You can choose a different license if you want, or you can choose not to let other people benefit from your goodwill. It's up to you.
* The `"description"` can be a sentence to attract attention you your project. In my case, it could be _"Using Express to deliver a React frontend created with Vite"_ or _"Serve the build of a React app with Express"_.

</details>

## A new `"start"` script

I won't be getting you to write any tests for this project, so you can replace the current `"scripts"` block with this:
```json-#5
  "scripts": {
    "backend": "npm --prefix ./backend start",
    "start": "npm run backend"
  },
```

I could have made this simpler, but this `"scripts"` block illustrates a useful technique. You can get one entry in the block to `run` another entry. 

1. Run this command in the Terminal from the parent folder: `npm start`
```bash-#
$ <b>npm start</b>

> myproject@1.0.0 start
> npm run backend

> myproject@1.0.0 backend
> npm --prefix ./backend start

> start
> node server.js

Server listening at http://localhost:3000
```

Once again your server has started (assuming that you pressed `Ctl-C`, to stop the server, like I asked you to do at the beginning of this section).

The instruction `--prefix ./backend` tells `npm` to navigate into the `backend/` directory before running the `"start"` script that is defined in `backend/package.json`.

`npm` allows you to use two commands directly: `test` and `start`. For any other script names that you might want to use, you have to explicitly use the `run` command. `npm run start` will work fine, but `npm backend` (without the `run` command) will fail.

So now, you can execute a command from the parent folder, and have it act on files in the sub-folders. In the next section, you'll see how to use this to move files from the `frontend/` folder to the `backend/`.

</section>