<!-- Writing a shell Script -->
<section
  id="writing-a-shell-script"
  aria-labelledby="writing-a-shell-script"
  data-item="Writing a shell Script"
>
  <h2><a href="#writing-a-shell-script">Writing a `shell` script</a></h2>

You might be just about to enter new territory.

In order to automate the process so that you can run it with a single `npm` command, it would be good to write a `shell` script, complete with sanity checks, that you can customize for your future needs.

You have experience with running simple `bash` commands in the Terminal, like `ls` or `cd` or `npm`, or, just now `rsync`. You have experience in writing JavaScript scripts (like `server.js`) and running them with a `bash` command (like `node server.js`) in the Terminal. For the next part of your journey, you will be seeing how to write a _shell script_: a script that runs a series of `bash` commands.

The reason for writing a `shell` script is that [`rsync`](https://linux.die.net/man/1/rsync), is a "fast and extraordinarily versatile file copying tool" which is already installed on your computer. NodeJS does not provide this kind of power, and there's no need to reinvent the wheel. It would be possible to use a NodeJS wrapper script that calls `rsync` for you, but it's much simpler to use `rsync` in its native environment.

1. In the parent folder of your project (MyProject), create a file called `publish.sh`. (The `.sh` extension stands for <b>sh</b>ell script.)
2. Paste the contents the code listing below into your new file.

```shell
#!/bin/bash

# Define the paths for dist and the target directory
DIST_DIR="./frontend/dist/"
PUBLIC_DIR="./backend/public/"
ASSETS="$PUBLIC_DIR"assets/

# Ensure the script is run from the correct location
if [ ! -d "$DIST_DIR" ]; then
  echo "Error: $DIST_DIR does not exist. Please make sure 'vite build' has been run."
  exit 1
fi

if [ ! -d "$PUBLIC_DIR" ]; then
  echo "Error: $PUBLIC_DIR does not exist. Please make sure the backend directory is set up correctly."
  exit 1
fi

# Copy everything from dist/ to ../backend/public using rsync
echo "About to sync files from $DIST_DIR to $PUBLIC_DIR"

echo "These files in the $ASSETS folder may be out of date:"
ls "$ASSETS"
read -p "Do you want to delete them ([y]es or [N]o): " -n 1 -r
echo # (optional) move to a new line
if [[ $REPLY =~ ^[Yy]$ ]]
then
    # do dangerous stuff
    echo "Deleting the files..."
    rm -rf "$ASSETS"
else
    echo "No files were deleted."
fi

rsync -a --verbose "$DIST_DIR/" "$PUBLIC_DIR/"
echo "Files successfully synced."
```

<details class="tldr">
<summary>All about `publish.sh`</summary>
This script is well commented, so that it doesn't matter if you don't understand the intricacies of all the `bash` syntax; you can still understand what it does.

Just note, though, that lines 22 to 33 are likely to annoy you. Line 30 does something destructive. The command `rm -rf <some folder>` can be devasting, with no hope of recovery.

The first line contains what is known as  the [_shebang interpreter directive_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)):

```shell
#!/bin/bash
```

When you run `publish.sh` as an executable program, this line tells your Terminal what program (`bash`) to use to run it.

Lines 4-6 create variables that you can set to indicate where to find the source and target folders for the `rsync` operation:

```shell-#4
DIST_DIR="./frontend/dist/"
PUBLIC_DIR="./backend/public/"
ASSETS="$PUBLIC_DIR"assets/
```

In `bash`, when a variable is created, the variable name must be followed immediately by `=` and then by the value, with no spaces. When the variable is used, it must be given the `$` character as a prefix. It is safest to wrap the variable name in `"` double quotes.

Lines 9 to 17 simply check that the source and target folders exist, and prevent the script from going any further if they don't.

The `vite build` process will generate a `.js` and a `.css` file with arbitrary names. Each time your JavaScript or CSS is changed, a new file, with a new arbitrary name will be created inside the `frontend/dist/assets/` directory. You don't want your `backend/public/assets/` directory to fill up with out of date files, so lines 22 to 33 list the files that will be deleted, and ask you if you really want to delete them.

In fact, only line 30 is essential. If you are confident that the script is correctly targeting the correct `backend/public/assets/` directory, you can comment out lines 22 - 29 and lines 31-33, by placing a `#` at the beginning of each of these lines.

```shell-#22
# echo "These files in the $ASSETS folder may be out of date:"
# ls "$ASSETS"
# read -p "Do you want to delete them ([y]es or [N]o): " -n 1 -r
# echo # (optional) move to a new line
# if [[ $REPLY =~ ^[Yy]$ ]]
# then
#     # do dangerous stuff
#     echo "Deleting the files..."
    rm -rf "$ASSETS"
# else
#     echo "No files were deleted."
# fi
```

Unless you comment out these lines, you'll have to press 'Y' on your keyboard each time you run the `npm run publish` script.

Line 35 is where the `rsync` command that you saw earlier is run. I've added the `--verbose` flag so that a summary of all the files that were updated is shown in the Terminal.

</details>

</section>