<!-- An executable script -->
<section
  id="an-executable-script"
  aria-labelledby="an-executable-script"
  data-item="An Executable Script"
>
  <h2><a href="#an-executable-script">Making your `publish.sh` script executable</a></h2>

I got you to cheat a little. I got you to use the `bash` command:
```bash
bash ./publish.sh
```

You could make the `publish.sh` file executable, so that you can run it as a program in its own write. Remember that the shebang interpreter directive tells your Terminal to use `bash` to execute this file.

1. In the Terminal, run the command `ls -1lF`

You should see something like this: 
```bash-#
<i>ls -1lF          
total 16
drwxr-xr-x  7 james  staff  224 Nov 25 20:07 backend/
drwxr-xr-x  3 james  staff   96 Nov 25 20:26 frontend/
-rw-r--r--  1 james  staff  367 Nov 25 20:11 package.json</i>
</i><b>-rw-r--r--</b><i>  1 james  staff  656 Nov 25 20:20 publish.sh</i>
```


The `-l` flag (that's a lower-case "L"), tells the `ls` listing command to show information about file permissions, ownership and the last modification date. You can see that the permissons for `publish.sh` are `-rw-r--r--`.

This permissions string can be divided into four blocks:
```bash-#
-
rw-
r--
r--
```


The first character is **not** a `d`, so the file is not a <b>d</b>irectory (but `backend/` and `frontend/` are directories, so they have a `d` for the first character).

The second block gives the premissions of the owner (the user `james` in my case).  The permissions `rw-` mean that I can <b>r</b>ead from and <b>w</b>rite to the file, but I cannot e<b>x</b>ecute the file.

The third block says that other members of the group (`staff`) have `r--` read-only permissions. The fourth block says that any one else, who is not a member of the group `staff` also  has `r--` read-only permissions.

To make the `publish` script executable by you (the owner), and you only, you need to modify the permissions so that they become `-rwxr--r--`. You can do this with the [`chmod` ](https://linux.die.net/man/1/chmod)command:

```bash-w
chmod u+x publish.sh
```


This means:

* <b>ch</b>ange the
* <b>mod</b>e for the
* <b>u</b>ser (owner) by
* **+** adding an
* **x** to the permissions for the file
* **publish.sh**

2. Run the command `chmod u+x publish.sh`
3. Run the command `ls -1lF` again. (Hint: you can press the Up arrow on your keyboard to move back up through the history of your commands. If you press it once, the command `chmod u+x publish.sh` should appear again. If you press it twice the command `ls -1lF` will reappear, and you can simply press the Enter key.)

You should see that the line for `publish.sh` has changed.
```bash-#
<i>$ chmod u+x publish.sh
$ ls -lF              
total 16
drwxr-xr-x  8 james  staff  256 Nov 16 23:49 backend/
drwxr-xr-x  3 james  staff   96 Nov 16 21:11 frontend/
-rw-r--r--  1 james  staff  243 Nov 17 00:23 package.json</i>
</i><b>-rwxr--r--</b><i>  1 james  staff  656 Nov 17 13:14 publish.sh</i><b>*</b>
```


There is now an `x` in the fourth place, and an `*` asterisk at the end to say: "this file is executable"

4. In the Terminal type just `./publish.sh` and press the Enter key
```bash-#
$ ./publish.sh 
About to sync files from ./frontend/dist/ to ./backend/public/
building file list ... done

sent 96 bytes  received 20 bytes  232.00 bytes/sec
total size is 490  speedup is 4.22
Files successfully synced.
```


The `publish.sh` script will run again, but this time the `index.html` files are the same in both folders, so there is no need to actually copy anything.

</section>