<!-- Understanding router.js -->
<section
  id="understanding-router-js"
  aria-labelledby="understanding-router-js"
  data-item="Inside router.js"
>
  <h2><a href="#understanding-router-js">Understanding the `router.js` script</a></h2>

Before I show you how to fix this issue, I want to walk through the `router.js` script to make sure that it is clear what it does. (And yes, I've got this exact script working on my development computer. The problem is not in the script itself, and it's simple to fix.)

Here's the `router.js` script again, for reference:

```javascript
/**
 * backend/router.js
 */

const { Router } = require('express')
const router = Router()

router.get("/ping", ping)

module.exports = router


function ping(req, res) {
  const { protocol, path, ip } = req
  const { host, referer, origin } = req.headers
  
  const message = `Connection from
referer ${referer}
origin  ${origin}
ip      ${ip}
for     ${protocol}://${host}${path}
at      ${Date()}`

  console.log(message);

  if (res) {
    res.send(`<pre>${message}</pre>`)
  }
}
```


Line 5 uses a [deconstructing assignment](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment) to load the `Router` function which is one of the properties of the Express object.

You can think of the `Router` function as a black box which makes good things happen, without you having to understand how, just like your phone makes good things happen without you having to understand _what_ it is doing.

Basically, Express Router allows you to connect a requests from a specific _endpoint_ (like `/ping`) to a function that will respond to that request.

Line 6 creates an instance from the `Router` function. I have unimaginatively called this: `router`.  You can find details about [express.Router in the official documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html#express-router).

Line 8 tells the `router` instance to respond to a request for the `/ping` route by using the `ping` function as a callback. I'll describe the `ping` function in more detail below.

Line 10 makes this `router` instance available to any script that wants to use it.

<details class="note" open>
<summary>module.exports</summary>
If you are not familiar with the `module.exports` syntax, there's a good [article on SitePoint.com](https://www.sitepoint.com/understanding-module-exports-exports-node-js/#whatsthedifferencebetweenmoduleexportsandexports) that explains it in depth.

</details>

## How `server.js` interacts with `router.js`

The lines that you just added to `server.js`:
1. Loads in the new `router.js` file
2. `use`s it to control how any requests for specific API routes are handled.

```js-#6
<b>const router = require('./router')</b><i>
const PORT = 3000

const server = express()
server.use(express.static('public'));

</i><b>server.use('/', router)</b>
```

In other words, the `server.js` script gets to outsource some of its functionality to the `router.js` script. This lets you keep your code neat and tidy, with each script specializing in one thing.
</section>