<!-- The ping function -->
<section
  id="the-ping-function"
  aria-labelledby="the-ping-function"
  data-item="The ping Function"
>
  <h2><a href="#the-ping-function">The `ping` Function</a></h2>
  
So what does `server.get("/ping", ping)` do? 

<details class="note" open>
<summary>Full details</summary>
You can find the full details about route handlers like the `get` method in the [Express documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html#route-handlers).

</details>

In short: when your server receives a request from a client (such as your browser), Express will generate two objects that allow your server to handle the request. These two objects that are passed as parameters to the callback are conventionally called `req` (request) and `res` (response). 

The callback function in this case is `ping`, and so it starts by reading in these objects
```js-#13
function ping(req, res) {
```
```javascript-s
// lines skipped
```
```js-#29 
}
```

When you make a request for [http://localhost:3000/ping](http://localhost:3000/ping), the `path` part of the URL you requested is `/ping`, and the `server.get()` method associates this path with this `ping` function.

## Reading values from `req`

|     | |
| --- | --------------------------------- |
| req | is an instance of [http.ClientRequest](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#class-httpclientrequest). It contains data from the browser, and also information about the browser and the operating system on which it is running. |
| res | is an instance of [http.ServerResponse](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#class-httpserverresponse). It contains methods which can be used to send data back to the browser.                                                  |

<details class="tldr">
<summary>The `req` object</summary>
The `req` object is very complex. If you want to see _how_ complex (but you really don't):

1. Add the following route to your `router.js` script:
```js
router.get("/req", (req, res) => {
  res.send(`<pre>
${require("util").inspect(req)}
  </pre>`)
})
```
1. Stop your backend server (type `^C` in the Terminal where the server is running)
2. Restart it with `npm start`
3. Visit [http://localhost:3000/req](http://localhost:3000/req)
   
Over 600 lines of data. Too much information? So much output from such a cute little route. Don't say I didn't warn you. And even if you search through all that data, you won't find the protocol value of `"http"` anywhere. This value is returned by a getter function if you ask for it directly. And `inspect()` method of the `util` module doesn't ask.

<details class="question" open>
<summary>Bonus!</summary>
If you follow all these steps, then when you visit [http://localhost:3000/ping](http://localhost:3000/ping) the problem `Cannot GET /ping` will have magically disappeared. Can you see why?

</details>

</details>

Just trust me that the key information that you need from the `req` object is:
```js-#14
  const { protocol, path, ip } = req
  const { host, referer, origin } = req.headers
```

This reads three values directly from the `req` object:

* The `protocol`, which will be `http`(in this case) or the secure value `https`
* The `path` that your browser requested (in this case `/ping`)
* The `ip` address of the computer making the request. In this case, you'll probably see `::ffff:127.0.0.1`. You'll recognize `127.0.0.1` as the IP address for the `localhost` of your computer. The value you'll see is what's called an _IPv4-mapped IPv6 address_. In a way, it's like adding "The World" to the end of your postal address. The `127.0.0.1` is the part that is useful for you.

It then reads three more values from the `headers` that were sent by your browser:

* The `host`, or the server that the request was sent to. This includes the port, the domain and any subdomains. In this case: `http://localhost:3000`
* The `referer` header is only added if the browser is sending a request from inside a web page. You'll be using `fetch()` to do this shortly, but for now, the `referer` will be `undefined`
* The `origin` header is only added if the `referer` is not `undefined` and refers to a different `host` than the request is made to. The `origin` header can be used by the server to decide whether it wants to deal with requests from a third-party site.

<details class="tip" open>
<summary>Making a `Date()`</summary>
JavaScript's built-in [`Date()` function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) returns an object which, when rendered as a string, gives:

- The day of the week
- The month
- The day of the month
- The year
- The time to the nearest second
- The time zone
- The name of the time zone

Each time you call the `Date()` function, it will give a different value, so it's a good way of checking whether your browser is showing you fresh data or something that it cached for you earlier.

</details>

### Sending a response with `res.send()`

So, if all were going well, the `ping()` function would create a string that looks something like this:

```bash-w
Connection from
referer undefined
origin  undefined
ip      ::ffff:127.0.0.1
for     http://localhost:3000/ping
at      Tue Nov 19 2024 11:11:38 GMT+0100 (Central European Standard Time)
```


It would log this into the Terminal Console, and then call the `res.send()` method of the `res` (response) object to send this string back to your browser.

You can read more about the different methods of the `res` object [here](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/nodejs-res-object-in-expressjs).

<details class="pivot" open>
<summary>Getting `ping()` to work</summary>
But the `ping()` function did not do that, for a very simple reason that you have perhaps already guessed.

</details>
</section>