<!-- Where is the backend -->
<section
  id="where-is-the-backend"
  aria-labelledby="where-is-the-backend"
  data-item="Which backend?"
>
  <h2><a href="#where-is-the-backend">Where is the backend for the Vite development server?</a></h2>

It's not surprising that you didn't get the same response that you got from [http://localhost:3000/ping](http://localhost:3000/ping), because the Vite development server is running at [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173). Using `fetch('/ping')` is asking for data at the wrong address.

How do you fix it so that it asks at the right address?

First, what _is_ the right address? For now, the backend server is running at `http://localhost:3000`, because that value was hard-coded into `server.js`. When you are working with a team, someone might be making changes to the backend while you make changes to the frontend, and you want to be able to adapt as quickly as possible, without searching through your code.

The answer is to create a file called `.env`. "env" is short for `environment`, and the initial dot is to make this file hidden from your operating system's desktop.

In a `.env` file, you can set any variables which might change (like the location of the backend server) or any information that no-one else needs to know (like the secret keys for connecting to your private database).

When Vite launches its development server, it will look for a `.env` file and read in any variables whose name starts with `VITE_`. This means that you can store other variables with other names, and Vite won't spy on them. The variables that start with `VITE_` will be added to an object called `import.meta.env`.

<details class="note" open>
<summary>`.env` with Vite and NodeJS</summary>
If you have used a `.env` file with NodeJS, you will know that NodeJS can read variables from the file into its `process.env` object. However, it doesn't do this automatically. Vite's use of `.env` is different in three ways:

- The `.env` file _is_ read automatically
- Only variables that start with `VITE_` are read in
- These variables become accessible from the `import.meta.env` object, not from `process.env`.

</details>

1. Create a file at `frontend/.env` — at the root of the `frontend/` directory
2. Add this entry: `VITE_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000`
3. Edit the file at `frontend/src/components/Ping.jsx` so that it matches the listing below:

```javascript-
<i>/**
 * frontend/src/components/Ping.jsx
 */

import React, { useState } from 'react'
</i><b>const TAG_REGEX = /(<.*?>)|(<\/.*?>)/g
const ORIGIN = import.meta.env.VITE_ORIGIN
console.log("ORIGIN:", ORIGIN);</b><i>

export const Ping = () => {
  const [ response, setResponse ] = useState("")
  
  const getPing = () => {
    fetch(`</i><b>${ORIGIN}</b><i>/ping`)
      .then(incoming => incoming.text())
	  </i><b>// Always sanitize data from unreliable sources
      .then(text => text.replace(TAG_REGEX, ""))
      .then(text => setResponse(text))
      .catch(error => setResponse(error.message))</b><i>
  }

  return (
    <>
      <button
        onClick={getPing}
      >
        GET /ping
      </button>
      <pre>
        {response}
      </pre>
    </>
  )
}</i>
```

4. Note that this time:
	- A TAG_REGEX regular expression is declared
	- The incoming string _is_ sanitized using this RegExp to remove any embedded tags, such as a `<script>` tag which could run arbitrary code without your knowledge.
	- There's a `catch()` statement, just in case there is a problem with the `fetch` command.

</section>