<!-- Checking for dev mode -->
<section
  id="checking-for-dev-mode"
  aria-labelledby="checking-for-dev-mode"
  data-item="Check for Dev Mode"
>
  <h2><a href="#checking-for-dev-mode">Checking for `development` Mode</a></h2>

You want your server to be secure in production mode. You have explicitly sent `NODE_ENV=production` in the `.env` file. If this value is _not_ set, then your server can consider that it is running in _development_ mode, and that it can relax its security. 

You can create a [regular expression](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_expressions)  to match any of the common values for `NODE_ENV` that developers use to indicate that the project is in the production environment.

Here's the expression...

```js
const PROD_REGEX = /^(prod|production|staging|release|deploy)$/i
```

... and you can test it [here](https://regex101.com/r/d4ilhU/1).

## Testing if your server is running in production mode

Here's how you can test it directly in your `server.js` file. (Note that the `console.log(...)` lines 11-16 are only temporary.)

1. Edit the beginning of `server.js` so that it matches the code shown below.

```js
<i>/**
 * server.js
 */

require('dotenv').config()
			
</i><b>const PROD_REGEX = /^(production|prod|staging|release|deploy)$/i
const is_dev = !PROD_REGEX.test(process.env.NODE_ENV)
process.env.IS_DEV = is_dev

console.log(`is_dev:
  ${is_dev} (${typeof is_dev})`)
console.log(
  `process.env.IS_DEV:,
  ${process.env.IS_DEV} (${typeof process.env.IS_DEV})`
)</b><i>

const express = require('express')</i>
```
```javascript-s
// Several lines skipped
```

<details class="note" open>
<summary>Why create process.env.IS_DEV?</summary>
Other scripts that you haven't written yet will also want to know the value of `is_dev`. Adding a new key-value pair to `process.env` means that these future scripts can read the value directly from `process.env`, without having to know about `PROD_REGEX` 

REMINDER: All values in `process.env` are converted to strings. This means that the value of `process.env.IS_DEV` is not `true` (as you might expect) but `"true"`.  Because `"true"` is a _truthy_ value, you might not notice this subtle detail.

However, in `.env` you just set `NODE_ENV=production`. As a result, `process.env.IS_DEV` will take the value `"false"`. And `"false"` is a string which is _not empty_, so JavaScript gives `"false"` a _truthy_ value, too.

When other scripts in backend app check later if they are running in development mode, then you will have to make an explicit test, to convert the string to a Boolean:

```js-#
const is_dev = process.env.IS_DEV === true
```

</details>

After you make this change to `server.js`, your server should restart.

2. Look in the Terminal window where you ran `npm start`. You should see this:

```bash-w
[nodemon] restarting due to changes...
[nodemon] starting `node server.js`
is_dev:
  false (boolean)
process.env.IS_DEV:,
  false (string)
Server listening at http://localhost:3333
```

## What if NODE_ENV=dev?

To check that your server will also be aware when it is in development mode:

1. Open `backend/.env`
2. Set the key-value pairs as shown below

```bash
NODE_ENV=dev
PORT=3000
```

3. Stop your Express server (^C)
4. Restart it
5. Look at the last few lines in the Terminal window:

```bash-w
is_dev:
  true (boolean)
process.env.IS_DEV:,
  true (string)
Server listening at http://localhost:3333
```

</section>