<!-- serveCookie -->
<section
  id="servecookie"
  aria-labelledby="servecookie"
  data-item="serveCookie"
>
  <h2><a href="#servecookie">serveCookie: a Middleware Function</a></h2>
  
You've already used third-party middleware functions. Both `cors()` and `express.static('public')` return middleware functions. Now it's time to make your own and ensure that it gets assigned to `serveCookie`.

You can start with a placeholder middleware function.

1. Open the file that you created at `backend/serveCookie.js`
2. Type into it the code that you see below.
```js
/**
 * backend/serveCookie.js
 */

const serveCookie = (req, res, next) => {
  const { path } = req
  console.log("path:", path)
  next()
}

module.exports = serveCookie
```

In your Terminal window, `nodemon` should now happily restart your server:
```bash-#
[nodemon] restarting due to changes...
[nodemon] starting `node server.js`
🤚USING CORS FOR DEVELOPMENT
Server listening at http://localhost:3000
```

3. In your browser, visit [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)

In your Terminal window where you ran `npm start` you should see output like the following :
```bash-#
path: /
path: /assets/index-CREjuYt1.js
path: /assets/index-B1jir2rU.css
path: /vite.svg
```

The random numbers and letters used for the names of the files in the `/assets/` directory will be different, and you might or might not see an entry like `path: /vite.svg`.

## What is `serveCookie` doing?

In `server.js`, the line `server.use(serveCookie)` comes before any code that sends a response back to the browser. When your server receives a request, it works through the code, line-by-line until something goes wrong (as it did earlier), or until it Express sends a response.

So, `serverCookie()` will be called for every request that the server receives. You've already seen how the `ping` function for the `/ping` route can read the value of `path` for the `req` argument, and send a response using the `res` argument. Here there is a third argument: `next`.

The `serveCookie` function reads the `path` and simply logs it to the console. The `path` that was requested was `/`, but three or four paths are logged. This implies that there must have been several different requests.

When the browser receives the `index.html` page is loaded, it reads its contents and requests the JavaScript file, the CSS file and the image that will be displayed in the browser tab for this page.

But `serverCookie()` doesn't actually send any data back to the browser. After it had logged the request `path`, it simply called `next()`.

### `next()`

If no data were sent back to the browser, the browser would just sit and wait. It would just freeze. Express gives middleware the chance to do one of two things:

* Trigger a response method with the `res` object
  
  OR
* Let the _next_ middleware function or routing method take over

The queue of `next` functions can be set up in several different ways. If no `next` function is specifically given, Express will continue with the next `use()` statement. In this case, the next `use()` statement is on line 24 of `server.js`:

```js-#23
server.use(serveCookie)
server.use(express.static('public'))
```


This looks for the `/index.html` file in the `backend/public/` folder, and sends it to the browser. And the browser asks for the JavaScript file (from the the `backend/public/` folder), and the CSS file (from the same place) and perhaps the SVG file (also).

## Only `index.html` gets a cookie

As you can see, every request that the server receives is channeled through the `serveCookie()` function. But it only makes sense to send a cookie with a request for `/index.html` itself. Because a request for `/` implies a request for `/index.html`, both cases must be treated.

Here's how you can check the `path` so other requests don't get any special treatment.

1. Add an `if` statement to your `serveCookie.js` file, as shown below:

```js-
<i>/**
 * backend/serveCookie.js
 */

module.exports = (req, res, next) => {
  const { path } = req
  console.log("path:", path)
  </i><b>if ( path === "/" || path === "index.html" ) {
    console.log("Cookies!")
  }</b><i>
  next()
}</i>
```

2. Refresh your browser
3. Look at the output in the Terminal
```bash-#

[nodemon] restarting due to changes...
[nodemon] starting `node server.js`
Server listening at http://localhost:3000
path: /
Cookies!
path: /assets/index-B1jir2rU.css
path: /assets/index-CREjuYt1.js
path: /vite.svg
```

Only the request for `/` resulted in `"Cookies!"` being logged.

The next step is to prepare the secret ingredients for the token that will be the filling for the cookie.

</section>